---
title: "Build a minimal Linux system and run it in QEMU"
description: "My sum up of doing Lab 1 of *Operating System Concepts* course."
tagline: "All you need to know"
tags: study-notes linux
redirect_from: /p/18

published: false
---

Linux is the #1 open-source operating system nowadays, and many people are running a Linux distro, such as Ubuntu or Arch. Linux is also the most popular choice for a server OS.

Building Linux from scratch is a good way to learn how it works, and is also a good practice for whoever wanting to learn about how operating systems work. And for me, the task of the first experiment of the course *Operating System Concepts*.

# Environment setup

The lab task is to build Linux **2.6.26** and run it in [QEMU][qemu]. For the most convenient setup, I recommend the 32-bit versions of **Ubuntu 14.04** "*trusty*" or **Debian 7** "*wheezy*". If you prefer another Linux distro, make sure it comes with glibc of a version **no newer than 2.19**. This is because glibc 2.20 requires Linux kernel 2.6.32, which supercedes our target version.

There's no need to install the base system physically if you don't have one yet, as a [virtual machine](/p/15) will work perfectly well, and you can enjoy your Windows or Mac applications while the VM is running.

Before we start building, we need to have proper tools installed. On Ubuntu 14.04 or Debian 7, the following command will install all we need for this lab:

```shell
sudo apt-get install build-essential libncurses5-dev
```

The `build-essential` package, as suggested by its name, contains essential tools for building, such as binutils, C compiler and library, and automation tools like Make.

# Building the Linux system

Now we're ready to build our own Linux. The first thing is the kernel.

## Compiling the kernel

Download and extract the source code:

```shell
wget https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v2.6/linux-2.6.26.tar.gz
tar zxvf linux-2.6.26.tar.gz
```

Next, generate the default configuration and build against that:

```shell
cd linux-2.6.26
make i386_defconfig
make
```

You'll likely encounter a few errors during the building process. Here are the fixes to two most common errors people encounter:

The first one you'll meet should look like this:

```text
gcc: error: elf_x86_64: No such file or directory
make[1]: *** [arch/x86/vdso/vdso.so.dbg] Error 1
make: *** [arch/x86/vdso] Error 2
```

To fix this, open `arch/x86/vdso/Makefile` in a text editor, such as Vim or gedit. Replace `-m elf_x86_64` with `-m64` and `-m elf_i386` with `-m32`. Save the changes.

The second one would be like this:

```text
undefined reference to `__mutex_lock_slowpath'
undefined reference to `__mutex_unlock_slowpath'
```

To fix this, open `kernel/mutex.c` and look for the above two functions. You'll see them written like these:

```c
static void noinline __sched
__mutex_lock_slowpath(atomic_t *lock_count);

static noinline void __sched __mutex_unlock_slowpath(atomic_t *lock_count);
```

Insert `__used` after the keyword `static` in both cases, so they should end up looking like these:`

```c
static __used void noinline __sched
__mutex_lock_slowpath(atomic_t *lock_count);

static __used noinline void __sched __mutex_unlock_slowpath(atomic_t *lock_count);
```

For most people, fixing the above two things should enable the build process to complete without interrupts.

That's the kernel. Before we can boot it up, we need an initial filesystem, with some critical files for the system to be able to boot up.

Here two options are presented. Although only one is necessary, I still recommend trying out both - for a better understanding how Linux works.

## Preparing the root filesystem - Option 1

With the first option, we will be creating a minimal program to serve as the "startup program".

Open your favorite text editor and write the following C program:

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int main() {
    while (1) {
        printf("Hello\n");
        sleep(1);
    }
}
```

Save it as `test.c`, and run the following command to compile it:

```shell
gcc -static -o init test.c
```

Now you have the init program. You need to prepare the filesystem. The following commands will create an empty 4 MB image and mount it at `rootfs`.

```shell
dd if=/dev/zero of=myinitrd.img bs=4M count=1
mkfs.ext3 myinitrd.img
mkdir rootfs
sudo mount -o loop myinitrd.img rootfs
```

Next, copy your init program into it, and create some device files as required:

```shell
cp init rootfs/
cd rootfs
mkdir dev
sudo mknod dev/ram b 1 0
sudo mknod dev/console c 5 1
cd ..
umount rootfs
```


  [qemu]: https://www.qemu.org/
