---
title: "Summary of 2019"
tags: casual
redirect_from: /p/32

published: false
---

It's the Lunar New Year again. Perhaps a good point for a summary of my 2019.

## Plentiful

Look back to when I entered the university in summer 2017. I had a bit of experience in C and C++ (was an NOIP player), as well as [Flash](/project/SpaceRider) and [Windows](/project/TetrisAI) programming. I had a basic level of Linux knowledge, being comfortable with working in a terminal. There was too much to learn. I had my first cloud server in July 2018 and began the real way to a Linux admin.

Early 2019, I had my first domain names (including this one) and learned about DNS. I setup my website (this site).

Shortly before the end of the spring semester, I took charge of the server infrastructure of [USTC Linux User Group](https://lug.ustc.edu.cn/). It wasn't until then that I learned about advanced networking techniques such as geo-based DNS resolution (with `bind9`), VLAN, IP Virtual Server, iptables firewall rules, NAT and traffic forwarding etc. The intranet of our infrastructure is an overlay network based on [tinc][tinc], and additional tweaking and tuning for better performance has always been a topic inside our group chat.

Soon after that, I bought my development server (workstation) and set it up with Ubuntu 19.04.

In summer, I joined the [Vlab project](/project/vlab) where we host virtual machines (LXC containers actually) for students to do course labs. Our supervisor saw the project as a success and bought more servers for expansion.


  [tinc]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinc_(protocol)
